---
layout: default
title: Code
---

In our SMILE research group, we encourage open-source release of software artifacts. As of now, we have released several software artifacts, in terms of source code and datasets (unless restricted by respective funding agencies) associated with most of our research papers.

---

#### *Third-Party Library Migration*

---

###### Migration Mapper ---
[MigrationMapper](https://github.com/hussien89aa/MigrationMapper) is an open source tool that provides the developer with easy-to-use and comprehensive way of extracting, from given list of input projects, existing method mapping between two third-party libraries using program analysis based on Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) code representation. In a nutshell, MigrationMiner (i) detects, (ii) extracts, (iii) filters, and (iv) collects code changes related to any performed migration. (iiv) mapping which detects mapping between two APIs methods. A demo video of MigrationMapper is available at [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D-01g2GjuTg)

###### Migration Miner ---
[MigrationMiner](https://github.com/hussien89aa/MigrationMiner) is an open source tool that provides the developer with easy-to-use and comprehensive way of extracting, from given list of input projects, existing migrations between two third-party libraries using program analysis based on Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) code representation. In a nutshell, MigrationMiner (i) detects, (ii) extracts, (iii) filters, and (iv) collects code changes related to any performed migration. For a given input project, MigrationMiner <b>detects</b> any migration undergone between two java libraries and returns the names and versions of both retired and new libraries. Thereafter, MigrationMiner <b>extracts</b> the specific code changes, from the client code, and which belong to the migration changes (it should at least have one removed method from the retired library, and one added method from the new library) from all other unrelated code changes within the commits. Next, MigrationMiner <b>filters</b> code changes to only keep fragments that contain migration traces i.e., a code fragment, generated by the <i>diff</i> utility, which contains the removed and added methods, respectively from the retired and the new library. Finally, MigrationMiner <b>collects</b> the library API documentation that is associated with every method in the client code. The output of MigrationMiner, for each detected migration between two libraries, is a set of migration traces, with their code context, and their corresponding documentation.

When you use this tool, please cite this paper.

<pre>
@inproceedings{alrubaye2019migrationminer,
  title={MigrationMiner: An Automated Detection Tool of Third-Party Java Library Migration at the Method Level},
  author={Alrubaye, Hussein and Mkaouer, Mohamed Wiem and Ouni, Ali},
  booktitle={2019 IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME)},
  pages={414--417},
  year={2019},
  organization={IEEE}
}
</pre>


---

#### *Self-Affirmed Refactoring*

---

###### Self-Affirmed Refactoring Definition ---

[Self-Affirmed Refactoring](https://smilevo.github.io/self-affirmed-refactoring/IWoR19_index.html) In this empirical study, we examined refactoring activities to explore how developers document their refactoring activities during the software life-cycle. Then we extract the rationale behind the applied refactorings, e.g., fixing code smells or improving specific quality attributes. Our approach relies on text mining refactoring-related change messages and identifying refactoring patterns by only considering refactoring commits. [SAR Dataset QA](https://smilevo.github.io/self-affirmed-refactoring/Data/commit_InternalQA_update.csv) and [Paper](https://smilevo.github.io/self-affirmed-refactoring/Preprint/IWoR19-preprint.pdf).

---

#### *Performance Regression*

---

###### PRICE
[Aequitas](https://github.com/sakshiudeshi/Aequitas) is a directed fairness testing framework for machine learning models. See the paper [Automated Directed Fairness Testing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.00468) for more details.
